Advertisement“When are the Wegos coming on?” the young boy sitting next to me asked his father. His impatience was reasonable enough. Here we were, five minutes into “The Lego Ninjago Movie,” gazing at a live-action prologue with Jackie Chan, a kid and a cat in a store full of exotic knickknacks.Soon enough, the Wegos awwived, and the latest installment in a nearly foolproof franchise was underway, a fast-moving mélange of brazen corporate promotion, winking pop-culture cleverness and earnest lesson-learning. I realize that makes this movie sound indistinguishable from nearly every other piece of family-targeted animated big-screen entertainment out there, and I’m sorry to report that the Lego movie enterprise has lapsed into intentional mediocrity.Garmadon, who wants to be a mayor, is a megalomaniac whose regular assaults on peace and normalcy are breathlessly covered by the news media and whose favorite pastime is firing his underlings. His estranged teenage son, Lloyd (Dave Franco), is ostracized and mocked for being the child of such a monster. But Lloyd, whose alter ego is the Green Ninja, works behind the scenes to check his father’s worst tendencies. Does every movie have to be a political allegory now? Can’t we just have fun?Not as much as we’d like to. The Lego figures are rendered with playful rigor; their limited movements and expressions generate some amusing sight gags. But the physical world they inhabit is more of a generic digital-cartoon space than a snapped-together environment. And the themes they explore are tired, cynical, sub-Disney bromides about family reconciliation and self-discovery.AdvertisementA dollop of mawkish sentiment is to be expected in this kind of movie. “The Lego Ninjago Movie” applies it in gluey globs, freezing the action so that Lloyd and Garmadon can work out their issues. For whose benefit? Children are unlikely to be captivated by this unconvincing melodrama of abandonment and reconciliation, and adults will be moved by it only because we’re hopeless crybabies.Advertisement“She’s a girl and a ninja! Can she have it all?” a voice-over asks sardonically, trying to make a self-conscious joke at the expense of the movie’s own imaginative limitations. “You fellas need to inform yourselves on where we’re at culturally,” the lady ninja retorts. It’s a good line, but also one that the writers and directors — fellas to a man — might have taken a bit more to heart. Or maybe they did, and this is just where we’re at culturally.Go to Home Page »